Hello, you're watching The One Show,
live on BBC One and iPlayer.
With Alex Jones
and JB Gill.
Now as it's Wednesday,
Matt's in for Watchdog.
And if you're one of the millions
of people watching with a pension,
you'll want to listen up.
Yes, I'll be telling
you about the pension provider
that's left some customers locked
out of their life savings.
Plus, our inbox was inundated
on Easter Monday with complaints
about a cancelled P&O cruise that
let people know just 24
hours before departure.
We'll be telling you how to claim
back costs if you're
left out of pocket.
Thanks, Matt, that's coming
up in just a moment.
Also tonight - we'll be joined
by Max Beesley and newcomer
Edison Alcaide who star
in a new thought provoking drama
called Suspect: The Shooting
of Jean Charles de Menezes.
Set 20 years ago, in the aftermath
of the 7/7 bombings,
it focuses on the real life events
that led to an innocent young
man being fatally shot
on the London Underground
after he was mistaken
for a terrorist.
Max and Edison will be telling us
what it was like to bring
such a powerful story
to the small screen.
And joining us later in the show
is Oscar nominated actor
Dame Imelda Staunton
and her daughter Bessie Carter -
who'll you know from Bridgerton -
as they prepare to take to the stage
for the first time playing
a mother and daughter.
Plus, we're heading to the stunning
Scottish Borders where artist
Adebanji Alade meets legendary
children's TV presenter
Timmy Mallett to find out
how his late brother
inspired him to paint.
Martin was never defined by his
language and learning difficulties,
he was never held back by downs
syndrome, he would say,
you and me, I'm happy.
What that means is
being in the moment.
Such a heart-warming film,
you won't want to miss that!
But first, it's Matt for Watchdog
with that story about pensions.
Yes, it's meant to be your ticket
to retirement, the pot of gold
at the end of your working rainbow.
So finding out you can't access it?
Well, it's not just frustrating,
it can put your plans on pause.
Imagine that there's
cash in your account,
but you can't access it
through no fault of your own.
Well, that's what some customers
of one of the country's largest
pension providers have been
experiencing over
the last few months.
Aegon boasts around 4 million
customers across the UK.
One of them is Beyata,
a self-employed cake
maker from Brighton.
I started a pension 20 years ago,
so I didn't pay too much attention.
Now I'm becoming 57 and I would
like to exit my money.
Wanting to use the money to buy
a property, Beyata tried to log
into her Aegon account to check how
much she had saved.
But she hit a brick wall.
I want to know how much
I've got in the pot.
You would like to see how
you want to exit, the tax you pay.
So when you go in, what do you find?
Well, nothing at the moment.
The website isn't working.
Confused, Beyata called up
Aegon customer services
who told her the website was down.
Instead, she was sent an online form
and was assured she would get
a response within five working days.
But she didn't hear anything.
There is no phone call,
there is no letter.
There's nothing.
Instead, took Aegon 18 days
to send Beyata a letter,
telling her she had over £22,000
in her pension savings pot
and explaining how to withdraw it.
But despite repeated attempts,
she still couldn't get
access to her money.
What is the communication
with Aegon at the moment?
There is no communication,
only the letter we've received.
I'm waiting.
What does this mean for you,
Beyata, and your family?
It affects me hugely
because obviously you find
a property, but I can't exchange
so I'm waiting for it.
So it's very, very frustrating.
Beyata's case is just
the tip of the iceberg.
There are loads of complaints online
from disgruntled customers.
Since the start of the year,
58% of Aegon reviews on Trustpilot
have ranked just one star.
The customers we've heard
from haven't been given a timeframe
for when they will be able
to access their money.
And in our research we also heard
that it is affecting
people who don't even hold
an account with them.
Eight months ago, self-employed
tradesman Gary decided
to leave Aegon having been
with the providers since 2010.
However, he discovered three
contributions of £778 had been
taken from him by Aegon
after closing his account.
So Gary complained to the company.
Then they came back and said
we shouldn't have taken it.
It can take a little while to sort
out, possibly 28 days.
But 28 days later, there
was still no sign of the £2300.
When you explained what was
happening, what did they say?
When I rang up I said could be
a week or could it be six months?
Sorry, there is no timescale.
But despite making regular calls
to Aegon there was still no
sign of Gary's cash.
Just continually ringing
their customer service.
Very frustrating.
And I just feel you're banging your
head against a brick wall.
Two years ago a new set of rules
was introduced known as consumer
duty which requires FCA regulated
firms to prove they deliver
good customer outcomes.
If they don't, they can
be hit with penalties.
James Daly is from the financial
research group Fairer Finance.
It doesn't sound like Aegon has done
enough at this point.
Customers seem
incredibly frustrated.
They've been made promises
which Aegon didn't keep.
If they were seen to be stalling
and not doing what was best
for their customers,
then penalties would be
even greater for them.
To say we are going to have this
sorted in a few days and then
continually let customers down,
just adds insult to injury.
We asked Aegon for a comment.
It sincerely apologised
for any frustration
and inconvenience caused.
It said that a technology upgrade
left a small number of customers
experiencing issues which may have
led to delays in service.
But that no one would be financially
disadvantaged as a result.
Aegon assured us that its customers'
money is safe and secure
and that its executive team
is working to improve
customer experience.
After we got in touch,
Aegon did reimburse Gary his £2300
and Beyata successfully cashed
out her pension pot, with both
receiving gestures of goodwill.
Aegon, you've been trusted to look
after people's money.
So don't let them down when,
after years, they need
to access their funds.
You really feel for them.
t's so frustrating when you've got
money that you just can't access.
Absolutely, Al.
And if you feel you've been treated
unfairly by a pension provider,
or any company for that matter,
get in touch.
watchdog@bbc.co.uk,
@BBCWatchdog on the socials.
Another company that's back
in our inbox is Klarna,
the buy now pay later service.
Last year, we told you how
fraudulent accounts
were being set
up in people's names.
At the time, Klarna told us it had
industry-leading fraud prevention
methods in place to protect users.
I'm guessing that those
measures haven't held up?
You got it, JB.
We've heard from a number of people
who say fraudulent Klarna accounts
have been set up in their name
and now they're left with hundreds
of pounds worth of debt.
Take Craig.
Al, hit it.
Craig received a letter from Klarna
issuing a final demand
for a payment of £495,
but he hadn't used
Klarna since 2023.
Once he checked his credit score
and discovered it was affected,
he contacted Klarna who confirmed
someone had indeed set up
an account in his name.
Sadly Craig isn't alone.
JB, tell us about Carl.
He discovered he had
a Klarna account in his name
with a debt of over £600,
even though he's never
been a customer.
He told Klarna it couldn't possibly
have been him making the purchases
as he was with his family in Canada
at the time.
Yes, and he's since had calls
from a debt collection agency,
which has taken a big toll on him.
It's really frustrating
and incredibly stressful.
I'm looking to buy a house
later in the year.
And the idea of something
like this putting a spanner
in the works is unbearable.
That must be so stressful.
What has Klarna said about this?
Klarna says the fraudsters
would have already had compromised
data to open these accounts,
but it is really sorry for how
these cases were handled.
It says a stronger verification
process has now been introduced
meaning customers will have to take
a live selfie along with a photo
of their ID if fraud is suspected.
And what about Craig and Carl?
Klarna recognises that it didn't act
quick enough to resolve the issues
and since we got involved they both
have now had their debts removed
along with any marks
on their credit reports.
What a result for Watchdog!
Thank you, studio!
Hopefully Klarna will clear up
any other similar cases just
as quickly without needing
a nudge from us.
Let us know if they don't.
Now on Easter Monday,
whilst most people were still
working through their eggs,
our inbox was chock-a-block.
We received over 50 complaints
after P&O Cruises cancelled
its Southampton to Zeebrugge cruise
around 24 hours before departure.
The reason?
A last-minute delay
to the ship's refit.
Understandably people aren't happy.
And when I say people, I mean Mary.
JB, tell us something about Mary?
Mary planned to go
cruising with her friends.
Her husband even took time off work
to look after the dogs.
She says only one
of the group received
the cancellation email on Sunday
and when they phoned customer
services on Monday they said
the advisor didn't know
anything about it.
Yes, they thought it was all a scam
until P&O phoned them back hours
before the ship was due to board
confirming the cancellation.
Did they explain why it was so late?
They offered discount on another
cruise but many have said, not
likely and there are also additional
costs like insurance and parking and
time taken off work for dog care.
What should people do in that
situation?
Hold the cruise company to account.
It's the one that took your money.
If the ship's not available then
it's got to sort you out.
Only then should you go
to your insurer, because of course,
if you have to claim,
you could see your
premiums go up next time.
Which made us worry about tomorrow,
when The Aurora is off
to Norway for 12 nights.
P&O say she's ship-shape
and Bristol fashion,
pining for the fjords.
If you're Oslo-bound on the Aurora,
still no harm in checking
before leaving the house.
Send us a postcard of
the Northern Lights!
Thanks, Matt.
Lots of great advice as always.
Still to come tonight,
acting royalty Dame Imelda Staunton
will be here alongside her daughter,
Bridgerton star Bessie Carter,
as they tell us about playing
a mother and daughter
who don't see eye to eye.
But first, we're talking
about a powerful new drama out next
week called Suspect: The shooting
of Jean Charles De Menezes.
Set in London in 2005,
it focuses on the events that
surrounded the tragic killing
of an innocent man at Stockwell tube
station after he was
mistaken for a terrorist.
Before we speak to actors
Max Beesley and Edison Alcaide -
who plays Jean Charles -
let's take a look.
July 7th, we've never seen
anything like it before.
The most significant attack on Kabul
the Second World War.
We should
assume that the people who did this
will try again.
This needs decisive
action.
He has entered the station.
There is no doubt that the man shot
yesterday has no connections to
terrorism.
And joining us now is Max Beesley
and Edison Alcaide!
This is such a powerful drama.
We have both been lucky enough to
see a preview. It really takes you
back to how tense we were as a
nation at that time.
I do remember
exactly where I was at that time and
the show itself starts in the
aftermath of the first bombings
which resulted in I think 52 deaths
and almost 800 injuries. So we are
right in the deep end of the start
of the show. But I remember on the
day we were doing a run through for
the show at nine o'clock and the
producer said we should start at
8:30am. So we are all heading in an
hour earlier than we should have
been but we were all on that
infrastructure and then we were
hearing sirens and thinking what on
earth is going on and of course we
know now what a tragedy it was.
I
think everyone remembers where they
were.
were. After the original bombings
who had second-rate failed bombings.
which led to a huge manhunt
which Jean Charles de Menezes
was accidently drawn into.
How did he get caught up in this?
So many different factors and so
many errors. And obviously no luck
as well, a combination of
everything. But this is just the man
who was living in London, Brazilian
man living completely innocent and
just trying to make ends meet. Just
like everyone else.
It is so tragic
and that is portrayed really well in
the drama.
The drama is told from
multiple perspectives.
Including Andy Hayman
who oversees the investigations
into the bombings.
You play him and had
the opportunity to meet him.
I asked the producers on the show if
it was possible to get in touch with
him and I had read before I knew I
was going to do the job, he had a
book out which was a great read and
I'd read it a few times and started
to get a sense of the man and what
he was like as an operator in the
police force. He was an incredible
high achiever and immense
professional and very good and at
the top of his game but to actually
get time with him was invaluable
because you can get a measure of the
man. You're trying to find the soul
of someone and of course not trying
to do impressions of people but from
the practicalities of dialect and
movement and hand gestures and
within the confines of the script
just to get that time with him and
he was generous with me. And we
started off quite light for the
first hour and then got into some
quite pertinent questions and he was
very forthcoming. That was
invaluable.
You worked closely with the family
of Jean Charles de Menezes, you are
both Brazilian, but aside from that
you felt that there were some real
similarities between the two of you.
Absolutely. Jean Charles are
somebody I could see myself in. I
felt like I really connected with
Jean Charles on so many levels. It
is very meaningful to me, as well,
because he is a Brazilian guy living
in London, you know?
This is
Edison's first big role alongside
yourself, Max, and Daniel Mays and
Russell Derby, you must be very
proud of him.
Yes, when you look at
this horrific tragedy we only have
documents, we can look at the
descriptions of Jean Charles and so
on, but for a drama like this and
for Edison to play it like this, it
was so truthful and so beautiful,
actually, at the press screening at
the Bafta, I was sat next to Laura,
and we couldn't actually breed, we
were struggling to hold it together
and to humanise Jean Charles and to
portray him as best as you can as
you did -- could not actually
breathe. It is powerful to put that
drama into peoples houses and give
them multiples perspectives and to
see a living version of Jean Charles
as himself betrayed by Edison so
beautifully, it is vital to connect
with people, if that makes sense.
It
really was. It is a really important
show, and done so well.
Congratulations on your
performances. You can watch Suspect
on Disney+ from next Wednesday.
And details of organisations
offering help and support
In just a moment Dame Imelda
Staunton and Bessie Carter will be
here to tell us about taking
on their most personal role to date.
But now, we're heading
to the Scottish Borders with artist
Adebanji Alade to visit one
of the UK's most striking landmarks.
And joining him is a familiar face
whose artwork is as colourful
This landscape is stunning.
And I'm not here by chance.
This spot has been chosen
by someone
whose wacky sense of humour
kept a whole
generation of kids laughing.
Mallet's Mallett is
a word association game.
You must pause.
You mustn't hesitate.
Otherwise you get back
your head like this.
Or like this.
Timmy Mallett, he's asked me
to meet him here
at the foot of the magnificent
Leaderfoot Viaduct
in the Scottish Borders,
because nowadays he's more likely
to be wielding a paintbrush rather
than his iconic big foam mallet.
Here he comes.
Oh, my days.
Adebanji!
Timmy!
What an honour.
Tell me, why are we here?
And when I'm not entertaining
with Mallett's mallet,
I'm The Cycling Artist.
And I pedal everywhere.
And I paint pictures
everywhere I go.
Now it makes sense,
because this place is stunning.
We're setting up our easels
so I can paint him
while he captures
a picture of the landscape.
Southern Scotland is a hidden gem.
People tend to dash past on their
way to the Highlands, and really,
they're missing a trick because
this really has so much to offer.
This viaduct was an old railway line
which ran for 80 years.
The last Indiana Jones
film was shot here.
Wow.
It's a great location
and it's attracting all sorts,
including great
artists like Adebaji.
Joking aside, Timmy's
set up is pretty unusual.
Timmy, I have never seen
an easel on a bike.
I wanted to find a way
to paint on the bike,
so I've worked out a way of
attaching the easel onto the bike.
I painted the bike myself
with water-based paints.
It's part and parcel of who I am.
In 1984, Timmy joined
children's TV show Wide Awake Club
and later went on to present
Wacaday, which ran until 1992.
What do you think of the shorts?
Do you like them?
His face and catchphrases were known
by an entire generation.
Bash my head like this.
Or like this.
Utterly brilliant.
But more recently, art has become
a full-time occupation.
Timmy, have you always
been an artist?
Oh, yeah.
Art's been essential in our family.
My dad, he was an artist.
He would say, "Sharpen your eyes".
Look closely at things
and let the light and shade
build up the picture.
And we'd always have
a great critic in my mum.
Oh!
"Mum, what do you think
of my painting?"
She would say...
"Very nice, dear.
I prefer the frame."
In 2018, Timmy set off on
a 2500-mile painting
and cycling trip around Europe.
It's a long way to Santiago!
His inspiration was
his brother Martin.
Martin had Down's Syndrome
and he died shortly
before Timmy set off.
Martin was never defined by his
language and learning difficulties.
He was never held back
by Down's Syndrome.
He would say, "You
and me, I'm happy."
What that means is being
in the moment
and to be in the moment
is easy on the bike.
Dear Martin shows me that,
have a go,
try your best to
reach your potential.
See if you can.
Every day.
Wonderful.
What a spirit.
And you know what, Adebanji?
I'm done.
All right, I'm gonna come
and see yours first.
Oh, wow.
I love it.
The contrast in the light
hitting these pillars.
You have these silhouetted
ones against the sky,
and then, boom, the light comes out.
Wonderful.
Brilliant.
Thanks.
Shall we have a look at yours?
OK.
Right.
I recognise that fella.
Yeah.
There's some colour
in this, isn't there?
Yeah.
It represents what you do, how you
do it and what you do it with.
Thank
you, that is utterly, utterly
brilliant.
Thank you.
Thank you. Both paintings
are so lovely. I used to love
watching Timmy Mallett.
Time to say hello
to our next guests.
They're two actors who also happen
to share a family tree.
It's Dame Imelda Staunton
and her daughter  Bessie Carter.
I'm in the presence of acting
royalty, because you have just won
your fifth Olivier Award, amazing,
how do you feel?
Greedy! Still
greedy. It is very nice, yes. You
are not going to get much more out
of me on that.
You two now, mother
and daughter on
and daughter on stage in Mrs
Warren's Profession, set in
Victorian times, and when it was
first written, it is about the
contentious relationship between the
pair, and then a secret is revealed
that changes things.
Yes, it focuses
on a mother and daughter who have
been somewhat estranged and have not
known each other due to their
circumstances. We meet them over
these few days when they have a sort
of confrontation of sorts which
neither of them want to have but
they have to have.
And to have a
play that is written in 1893, about
the plight of women either in the
workplace or at home or just in
life, that women yet again are not
treated equally, and George Bernard
Shaw was a great champion of women,
and this play was a band, because
they didn't want to know. It was
partly banned because of the title.
You have a woman having a title, not
acceptable.
Not cool at the time.
Now, you start alongside your mum,
Bessie, and this is your first time
starring alongside her, how does it
feel?
Terrible, awful! We were both
having a terrible time!
having a terrible time! It is really
great. It is a real treat. We are
having a lovely time. It feels
weirdly, almost burly, to us,
normal, and be just our two actors
in a space trying to tell a story,
so it is a real treat.
And the
packed lunches are really good.
That
is all we talk about! You have the
hard-boiled eggs for the 11 o'clock
break, and then we compare stuff.
Living the dream! Add your dad as an
actor, you have directed him before,
is it good to working with family,
or not so much?
When you get into
that region when you're on the
floor, working with each other, the
relationship, the father and son
with my father, you trust each
other, I will give him a note, and
he would go OK and get up and do it,
but it was a brilliant thing for him
to let me direct, it is a brilliant
short, and he is wonderful in it. I
am really glad that I actually did
that, I have something that is
tangible with my father and I that I
can look at and show his
grandchildren years down the line.
It was a great experience.
Really
special, isn't it? And you said that
you had not performed together
before, but then we found this
photo, and we wondered what was
going on.
This was a rendition of
Mamma Mia!!.
It was last week!
Started young.
Dorking family,
Edison, what did your family say
when you wanted to pursue acting as
a career? -- talking family.
My
parents were always really
supportive but cautiously
supportive, they told me, OK, good,
have a Plan B, C and D, and get a
degree.
Did you?
I did. I actually
studied here in the UK, at
university, but I went for film
production. It was a way of sort of
like losing my parents but also
still being involved somehow in
film.
They must be proud now,
though. I totally understand that.
And lots of rumours flying around
about the celebrity Traitors
Sentences, And Celia Imrie Is
Rumoured To Be One Of Them, Will She
Make A Good Traitor?
She Is An
Actress, I Dare Say She Will Make A
Brilliant Traitor, I Cannot Think Of
Anyone Better.
We watch traitors and
it is hilarious, and I think she
would be a great asset to that
house.
Mrs Walker's profession opens
on the 22nd of May at the Garrick
Theatre in London and is on until
the 16th of August.
the 16th of August. -- Mrs Warren's
Profession. This would definitely
give the
give the cast the heebeegeebees! A
big thank you to all of our guests
and to Matthew Bostock.
That's all we've got
time for tonight.
I'll be back tomorrow with Roman
when we'll be joined
by the stars of Thunderbolts,
Florence Pugh and
Julia Louis-Dreyfus,
alongside Jeremy Vine.
Plus, KSI gives out
a special One Big Thank You.